---
title: Nacho Dip
recipe: Recipe Body
tags: []

---
#### Cheese Sauce

* 1 cup (250 mL) raw cashews (soaked for minimum two hours or overnight)
* 1 cup (250 mL) peeled/chopped carrots
* 6 tbsp nutritional yeast
* 2 tbsp lemon juice
* 1 garlic clove
* 1 1/4 tsp sea salt
* 3/4 tsp chili powder
* 1/2 tsp onion powder
* 1/4 tsp cayenne pepper

#### The Dip

* 1 cup chunky salsa
* 1 cup finely chopped sweet onion
* 1 chopped jalapeno pepper
* 4 handfuls of chopped spinach
* 1/3 cup crushed corn chips or bread crumbs for topping
* 1-2 green onion for garnish
* Chips or crackers for dipping (I used Mary’s Crackers)

#### Method

1. Make the Cheese Sauce. Place the cashews in a bowl, add water and cover for 2  
   hours or overnight. Drain and set aside. 
2. Preheat oven to 400F (200C). Lightly grease a casserole dish or 2-quart cast iron pan.
3. Place carrots in a small sauce pan and add water to simmer for 5 minutes until tender. I added some garlic powder, salt, and pepper for flavour.
4. In blender, combine soaked cashews, nutritional yeast, carrots, lemon juice, cayenne pepper, garlic, salt, chili powder, onion powder, and 2/3 cup water or coconut milk and blend until silky smooth. You may need to add more water if too thick. Pour into a large bowl. 
5. Make the dip: stir salsa, onion, spinach, and jalapeno into the cheese sauce until fully combined. Pour into baking dish and smooth out the top. Sprinkle corn chips or bread crumbs on top. 
6. Bake for 25-30 minutes, uncovered, watching closely toward the end of the cooking time to make sure the corn chip topping doesn’t burn. Garnish with sliced green onion and serve once cooled.You can store this dish for about 3-5 days in an airtight container in the fridge.